Let's discuss a few common web service security principles.
Authentication and authorization.
Authentication is about validating the identity of
a client that is attempting to call a web service that access is secure data.
Typically, identity is validated with user credentials such as username and password.
Authentication is simply like unlocking your phone with your pass code.
This step says yes,
I have access to what's on this phone.
Authorization is the next step after authentication.
Once the client is authenticated,
they have proven who they are,
what do they have access to.
For example, what data can they view?
Are they allowed to change that data?
Etc. This concept is similar to sharing a Google Doc with collaborators.
Once you share that document with a person via email and they
use that email to access the document, what can they do?
Can they just view the data or can they edit it too?